The biggest disease in science is the belief that nature belongs to man. By this I mean the expectation that all raw resources of organic or inorganic origin should be available at all times for extraction and processing into consumer goods. There are no built-in constraints to mitigate the environmental loss to virgin ecosystems as a result of the processes of industry. Because nature is seen as devoid of autonomy, sustainability is at best a luxury, whenever it is not completely ignored.
It must be recognized that such attitudes are by no means inherent to the human species, but are in fact contingent on the cultural expression of the post-industrialized consumer society curated through centuries of imperialism. The highest expression of such disease is in the spectacle that political activity has become in the United States. The elected president denies publically the insurmountable evidence of climate change brought upon by human activity. Meanwhile, the very apparatus that put this man in power upholds itself by means of waging continuous warfare on the Middle East.
I'd like to raise the notion: may not the humanitarian crisis be deeply nested in the environmental crisis of our times? Our planet is undergoing mass extinction, and though people have access today to unforseeable amounts of information, this is a news item that goes by unignored by the media. It is not something that Westerners talk about in their day to day life.
Why?
I posit that every aspect of 'developed' society in the Western world is deeply invested in the assumption that nature belongs to man. But this is lunacy. Despite all obsessions to 'find a cure for cancer' or to extend the natural lifetime of people by all means necessary, people will die and continue to die for as long as we have a clear understanding of what it means to be human. Death and disease are the ultimate ownership that nature has over us.
Must the ensuing fear and rejection of this unavoidable fact be the same that will drive our species--and the rest of the planet with it--to extinction? It shocks me that our engineers can now develop technologies to alter the very fabric of space and time--the entire world is hyperconnected at the speed of night--just to see them be perverted by a marketing apparatus based on exploitation of the ongoing anxiety and depression that it instills on its consumers. In response to the systemic failure that institutions have had in providing meaningful contact in our lives, the collective response is one of apathy.
Social media and entertainment glorify escapist distractions as a means to cope with our complete inability to operate independently of the industrialized infrastructure we find ourselves immersed in. Children are not taught in schools how to grow their own food, and even if they were, this exercise would not be brought to fruition in high density urban areas.
The city, I find, is the human space that is furthest removed from all other ecosystems. There is no time in the city to be concerned about how the goods we consume have been produced at the expense of rainforest and other forms of life. There is too much stress with jobs and living up to appearances. The need to fit within a community of peers is fulfilled with shopping centers, subcultures, mind-altering substances and a plethora of movies and shows from which to devise small talk. This occupies leisure time, while 9 to 5 jobs ensure that the urban cogs keep running.
How then can we save the planet if we cannot reintegrate ourselves with it? Is it worth saving the species if this entails the complete mass extinction of other forms of life? What seemingly indispensable luxuries are we willing to sacrifice if this can give a fighting chance of survival for all other non-human life?
I want to have this discussion with you because I care. Despite the fact that so many aspects of our worlds of artifice frighten and disgust me, there still remains some human decency in the capacity to express empathy and compassion. The push for intersectional feminism and social justice, vegetarianism and veganism, as well as inclusivity of all varieties of expressions of human identity are attempts that I must recognize as intended towards the betterment of the human conditon. What I ask now is for us to remember that we are part of nature. The sooner we wake up from the grand delusion of ownership of the planet, the sooner we may focus our vast resources towards integrating back into our cities and lives the ecosystems from whence we first evolved.

image link: https://www.nationalgeographic.com/content/dam/environment/photos/000/003/300.ngsversion.1485547204622.adapt.1900.1.jpg
