Do we still remember TIME? I mean, when did they take it away from us, when did we agree to believe in it in the first place? I do not recall. I cannot simply recall having agreed to all of this. If anything, I can only remember struggling against the current with all my might, only to realize that if I fought I would drown trying to be an individual. And so at some point I must have let go and let it carry me. Carry me all the way here, to the now.
 
               What is this place, out here in the open sea? There is no horizon, only still waves. But I have seen them show another side. I have seen them fill up with rage and toss me about like a helpless rag and there is no land in sight, perhaps the land was all a lie, a hope that I cannot quite remember. Out here in the sea the land is a mystery, a myth, an illusion as real as heaven above or hell below our deepest fears. Only the waves are real, incessant in their motions, carrying me along.
 
               Drifting.
 
               For how long will I drift?
 
               Shall I ever find land again, if it ever existed?
 
               It seems as if it doesn’t really matter, as I only have the option of staying afloat or drowning. And I do not want to see what lies deep in the dark as I suffocate in my last breaths. Not yet. That is a fate awaiting all of us, helpless before the currents of TIME and SPACE. When was SPACE a thing? When did it become? I do not remember signing up for this:
 
               “Hey, do you want to be born and be thrown into the chaos?”
               “Yeah, sure. Where do I have to sign? Will I get a coupon after the whole thing is done and over with?”
 
               No explanation given, no explanation necessary even. All I see is people around me feeling just as compelled as I am to swim up, to swim on. We’ll grow tired, we’ll grow restless. At times there will be others sharing the weight in their backs and we’ll think to ourselves that if we’re all out here together, it must be for a reason. Surely we must be headed somewhere, if such a thing or place ever existed beyond my imagination… I can almost picture the day when the horizon will turn into a tiny strip of land. Then it will all make sense and I shall disembark upon the uncovered shore.
 
               But out here nobody believes in the shore. If I were to tell you what the shore is, how to get there, you’ll only give me an ugly look. Yet another one of those idealists. Idealists who don’t realize that as fish we are helpless but to swim in this current of TIME, of SPACE, trapped in the medium that I was taught to call LIFE. But what is LIFE? Where is it? I don’t see it around me. All I see are people lost, just like me. People drifting.
 
               Drifting.
 
               When will we get to the other shore? How will we know?
 
               When the drifting stops.
 
3/18/13
