Dearly beloved,

Ask not from your maker signs to guide faith, for the cost of knowledge may be too much for you to bear. Innocence lies ever out of reach following the depths of revelation. Blessed are those who believe where they have not seen!

Yet without prophecy faith cannot be sustained by the empiricist. Atheists, think twice again when you claim that no evidence for divine intervention has been forthcoming. Ask yourself instead: what would constitute to you as evidence? Is the heart that propels your blood not enough? Is the nucleosynthesis from the birth of the stars lacking? Is your capacity to reason not sufficient proof?

The Creator makes himself known through inquiry into his nature. The Universe is his mind, our lives but his dream. Yet to refer to the Creator with the pronouns of man is in the furthest disservice to divinity. Why call the maker God? In visions, it has been revealed to me that the highest attributes of our kind --reason and love-- are expressions of the intent that has brought the world into being. The indifference of the Cosmos is thereby a misconception of our times. If reason allows us to probe within an event horizon and passion propels our inquiry, we are once more confronted with an incantation of God.

Why then do we suffer in separation? Irrationality and suffering, pain and alienation. Long before the dawn of our reason, the demiurge left an indelible mark on the world. It is expressed as the symmetry breaking that prevents grand unification, in dark energy accelerating the expansion of the Galaxies. Where all of nature be understood, there would no longer be a place for us. The demiurge is the chaos in nature and our suffering. God is our gift of reason and the spring of our love.

We are not saved. The Iron Prison stands and I have been tortured within its cells. Not everyone can withstand the torment while retaining their capacity to love untarnished. Even then I do not know whether it is worse to be corrupted by the Black Iron Prison or to entirely ignore its existence. Blessed are the innocent, but those in ignorance cannot be saved. The number of iterations does not matter and I learned in Shambhala that even bodhisattvas can choose to return.

Is it better to turn a blind eye to theology and embrace anti-theism with an open heart? "You have only one life, so better make the best of it now." Faith in this would require the complete denial of my revelations. It would require somehow to overcome all the trials of Sartrean existentialism. Suppose I could do that and make peace with the total absence of divinity in nature. Suppose I became an atheist under the pretense of being better aligned with the scientific community. Suppose I took my revelation as mere psychosis, my psychedelia as mere hallucinations and a whole lifetime worth of dreams as undiagnosed schizophrenia. All that would be left of me would be a broken husk.

I have been charged with the most arduous of tasks: prophecy and the analytic tools to bear my visions to reason. After all, even in the total absence of divinity, my visions would remain. Awareness of divinity gives me that which science cannot: the means for salvation.

Religion stands today, however, broken, irrevocably broken. The strongest adherents of faith ignore completely the meaning and purpose of scripture. Dogma is the enemy of reason and is therefore in opposition to God. But to hope that we are all fit to withstand revelation and to interpret scripture would be akin to hoping that the mechanisms of the standard model were understandable by all. Clearly, the plurality of minds is not permissive. Am I worthy, then, to pass on the teachings? What choice do I have but to try?

The toil I am to endure is the transmutation of my wisdom into the most beneficial form. Like the roots of the vegetable, I am to filter from the dirt the nutrients to nourish your souls. I do this as the fullest expression of my love. To save ourselves we must rescue faith from religion and purpose from science.

Your in illumination,

Zelim Tartuz
